# Getting values to the controller
In this update I'll go over my though process on how to convert the magnetic encoder inputs to an analog output that the controller can read

There are a few very important things to take into consideration:

1. The output frequency has to be at least as fast as the console requests inputs from the controller in order to have acurate inputs without changing the latency that the controller already has.

2. The output has to have a resolution at least as good as the controller samples. The controler's mucrocontroller has 8-bit [ADC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Analog-to-digital_converter) (analog to digital converters) which change the analog voltage from a potentiometer into a digital value. This means we must have a absolute minimum of 8-bit output resolution from the mag pot.

## Internal DAC
My first idea was to use an ESP32. some versions of the ESP32 have 2 internal 8-bit [DAC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital-to-analog_converter) (digital to analog converter). The problem is that I am using a version of the [ESP32](https://www.espressif.com/en/products/socs/esp32) (the [ESP32-c3](https://www.espressif.com/en/products/socs/esp32-c3) ic) which has internal usb capabilities so I dont have to use an external usb-serial chip to add usb. This ic does not have and DAC  :( which is really sad because it would be perfect if it did. It's super small (~~11x13mm) and is very powerful (140mhz 32-bit RISC-V).

## External DAC or PWM
My second idea was to use an external DAC. This makes the process a little more complicated because there is more overhead processing on the chip now (which I don't think would have been a problem) and an extra component. I could also simulate a DAC with [PWM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulse-width_modulation). I would make an RC low pass filter to smoothe out the PWM into a DC voltage. The problem with this is there is a trade off with response time and filtering. If I want a smoothe output voltage, I need more filtering. But with more filtering, the output has a lot of delay. It would be a similar effect to adding a snapback to you controller and turing it up super high. 

## Digital Potentiometer
My most recent idea is to use a digital potentiometer. These are digitally controlled potentiometers that can be essentially a drop in replacment for standard analog potentiometers. I will set the output voltage on the potentiometer and the controller wont know the difference. (and this way you could technichally still add any snapback or heartbeat module that u wanted and they would work like normal, but they will be totaly obsolete with the mag pot because all the filtering can be customized in the ESP32). The digital pot I'm planning on using has 257 taps (this just means that there are 256 different selectable resistances aka 8-bit resolution which is perfect for our case). You can get digital pots with higher tap counds but it wont make a difference because the controller can only see in 8-bit so any higher resolution will just get lost.